Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
Summary: Design an efficient drone routing system that navigates multiple drones
through connected zones while minimizing simulation turns and handling movement
constraints.

General Rules
• Your project must be written in Python 3.10 or later.
• Your project must adhere to the flake8 coding standard.
• Your functions should handle exceptions gracefully to avoid crashes. Use try-except
blocks to manage potential errors. Prefer context managers for resources like files or
connections to ensure automatic cleanup. If your program crashes due to unhandled
exceptions during the review, it will be considered non-functional.
• All resources (e.g., file handles, network connections) must be properly managed to
prevent leaks. Use context managers where possible for automatic handling.
• Your code must include type hints for function parameters, return types, and vari-
ables where applicable (using the typing module). Use mypy for static type check-
ing. All functions must pass mypy without errors.
• Include docstrings in functions and classes following PEP 257 (e.g., Google or
NumPy style) to document purpose, parameters, and returns.
III.2
Makefile
Include a Makefile in your project to automate common tasks. It must contain the
following rules (mandatory lint implies the specified flags; it is strongly recommended to
try –strict for enhanced checking):
• install: Install project dependencies using pip, uv, pipx, or any other package
manager of your choice.
• run: Execute the main script of your project (e.g., via Python interpreter).
• debug: Run the main script in debug mode using Python’s built-in debugger (e.g.,
pdb).
• clean: Remove temporary files or caches (e.g., __pycache__, .mypy_cache) to
keep the project environment clean.
5Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
• lint: Execute the commands flake8 . and mypy . --warn-return-any
--warn-unused-ignores --ignore-missing-imports --disallow-untyped-defs
--check-untyped-defs
• lint-strict (optional): Execute the commands flake8 . and mypy . --strict
III.3
Additional Guidelines
• Create test programs to verify project functionality (not submitted or graded). Use
frameworks like pytest or unittest for unit tests, covering edge cases.
• Include a .gitignore file to exclude Python artifacts.
• It is recommended to use virtual environments (e.g., venv or conda) for dependency
isolation during development.
If any additional project-specific requirements apply, they will be stated immediately below
this section.
6Chapter IV
Introduction
Autonomous drones are the future of transportation. They are already used in many
industries, such as agriculture, construction, and logistics. They are also used in military
operations, such as surveillance and reconnaissance.
Your task is to design a system that efficiently routes a fleet of drones from a central
base (start) to a target location (end), while navigating this dynamic network under
a set of strict constraints and optimization goals.
You’ll be given a graph representing the network of zones, and a set of constraints
that you must respect.
The graph is represented as a network of connected zones, where connections define pos-
sible movement paths between zones.
7Chapter V
Constraints
• Any library that helps for graph logic is forbidden (such as networkx, graphlib,
etc.).
• The project must be completely typesafe. Using flake8 and mypy is mandatory.
• The project must be completely object-oriented.
This will have to be demonstrated during the peer review.
8Chapter VI
Let the drone fly
Attached to this subject, you’ll find multiple files that represent the network of drones
as the following format:
Example:
nb_drones: 5
start_hub: hub 0 0 [color=green]
end_hub: goal 10 10 [color=yellow]
hub: roof1 3 4 [zone=restricted color=red]
hub: roof2 6 2 [zone=normal color=blue]
hub: corridorA 4 3 [zone=priority color=green max_drones=2]
hub: tunnelB 7 4 [zone=normal color=red]
hub: obstacleX 5 5 [zone=blocked color=gray]
connection: hub-roof1
connection: hub-corridorA
connection: roof1-roof2
connection: roof2-goal
connection: corridorA-tunnelB [max_link_capacity=2]
connection: tunnelB-goal
Interesting, right? To be more precise:
• The first line defines the number of drones using nb_drones:
<number>.
• Zone definition on each line using type prefixes:
◦ start_hub:
◦ end_hub:
◦ hub:
<name> <x> <y> [metadata] marks the starting zone.
<name> <x> <y> [metadata] marks the end zone.
<name> <x> <y> [metadata] defines a regular zone.
◦ The connection syntax forbids dashes in zone names (see below).
• All metadata is optional and enclosed in brackets [...] with default values:
◦ zone=<type> (default: normal)
◦ color=<value> (default: none)
◦ max_drones=<number> (default: 1) - Maximum drones that can occupy this
zone simultaneously
◦ Tags inside brackets can appear in any order.
• Zone types:
9Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
◦ normal – Standard zone with 1 turn movement cost (default)
◦ blocked – Inaccessible zone. Drones must not enter or pass through this zone.
Any path using it is invalid.
◦ restricted – A sensitive or dangerous zone. Movement to this zone costs 2
turns.
◦ priority – A preferred zone. Movement to this zone costs 1 turn but should
be prioritized in pathfinding.
• Colors:
◦ Colors are optional and can be used for visual representation (terminal output
or graphical display).
◦ Accepted values for color are any valid single-word strings (e.g., red, blue,
gray). There is no fixed list of allowed colors.
◦ When colors are specified, the implementation should provide visual feedback
through colored terminal output or graphical representation.
• Connections are defined using connection:
<name1>-<name2> [metadata]:
◦ Define a bidirectional connection (edge) between two zones.
◦ The connection syntax forbids dashes in zone names.
◦ Optional metadata can be specified in brackets [...]:
∗ max_link_capacity=<number> (default: 1) - Maximum drones that can
traverse this connection simultaneously
• Comments start with ’#’ and are ignored.
The zones coordinates will always be integers, and there will always
be a unique start and a unique end zone.
10Chapter VII
Mandatory Part
As you may have guessed, the main objective is to move all drones from the start zone
to the end zone in the fewest possible simulation turns.
VII.1
Pathfinding and Algorithm Requirements
• Drones may move simultaneously. The algorithm must schedule paths to maximize
throughput and avoid unnecessary delays.
• Your implementation must handle:
◦ Distribution of drones across multiple paths.
◦ Strategic waiting when movement is not possible.
◦ Avoidance of path conflicts and deadlocks.
• The algorithm must take into account:
◦ Path lengths, including movement costs associated with zone types (e.g., re-
stricted or priority).
◦ Turn scheduling, to prevent drones from colliding or blocking each other.
◦ Graph structure, to determine available disjoint or overlapping paths.
◦ Zone capacity constraints (max_drones) and connection capacity (max_link_capacity).
• Your algorithm should be adaptable: different maps may require different routing
strategies, depending on the topology and zone types.
• Visual Representation: Your implementation must provide visual feedback of
the simulation, either through:
◦ Colored terminal output showing drone movements and zone states
◦ A graphical interface displaying the network and drone positions
◦ Both options for enhanced user experience
11Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
• How efficient is your algorithm?
• Can it work with a large number of drones?
• What are the complexity (e.g., O(n), O(log n), etc.)?
• Are you recalculating or caching paths?
• How does it impact memory usage?
• How does your visual representation enhance understanding of
the simulation?
VII.2
Zone Occupancy Rules
• By default, a zone may contain at most one drone at any given simulation turn.
• Zones with max_drones=N metadata can contain up to N drones simultaneously.
• The only special exceptions to occupancy rules are:
◦ The start zone: all drones begin here and may share the space initially.
◦ The end zone: multiple drones can arrive here and are considered delivered.
• Two drones may not enter the same zone on the same turn unless the zone’s capacity
allows it.
• A drone may not move into a zone that would exceed its maximum capacity.
• Connection capacity (max_link_capacity) defined on connections limits how many
drones can traverse the same connection simultaneously.
• Drones may move simultaneously, as long as all capacity constraints are respected.
VII.3
Movement and Turn Mechanics
The simulation proceeds in discrete turns. At each turn, every drone may:
• Move to an adjacent connected zone (if capacity allows).
• Move to a connection towards a restricted zone (that requires 2 turns to be reached).
In this case, the drone MUST reach its destination during the next turn. It can’t
wait extra turns on the connection.
• Stay in place (e.g., to wait, or if movement is blocked).
The simulation must prevent conflicts and ensure valid movement scheduling based on
turn-by-turn state evaluation:
• Drones moving out of a zone free up capacity for that same turn.
• A zone must have available capacity for a drone to move into it (after all drones
moving out have free up space).
12Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
• For multi-turn movements (restricted zones), the drone occupies the connection
during transit and MUST arrive at the destination after the specified number of
turns. It cannot wait on the connexion for an empty space in the destination zone.
Each movement between zones has a cost in turns, based on the zone=type of the
destination:
• normal: 1 turn (default)
• restricted: 2 turns
• priority: 1 turn (but should be preferred in pathfinding algorithms)
• blocked: Inaccessible — cannot be entered
VII.4
Parser Constraints
The input file must respect the expected structure and syntax:
• The first line must define the number of drones using nb_drones:
<positive_integer>.
• The program must be able to handle any number of drones.
• There must be exactly one start_hub: zone and one end_hub: zone.
• Each zone must have a unique name and valid integer coordinates.
• Zone names can use any valid characters but dashes and spaces.
• Connections must link only previously defined zones using connection:
[metadata].
<zone1>-<zone2>
• The same connection must not appear more than once (e.g., a-b and b-a are con-
sidered duplicates).
• Any metadata block (e.g., [zone=... color=...] for zones, [max_link_capacity=...]
for connections) must be syntactically valid.
• Zone types must be one of: normal, blocked, restricted, priority. Any invalid
type must raise a parsing error.
• Capacity values (max_drones for zones, max_link_capacity for connections) must
be positive integers.
• Any other parsing error must stop the program and return a clear error message
indicating the line and cause.
It’s highly recommended to make your own map files on top of the ones
provided in the subject for handling edge cases and error handling.
13Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
VII.5
Simulation Output Format
• The simulation must output the step-by-step movement of drones from the start to
the end zone.
• Each simulation turn is represented by a line.
• A line must list all the drone movements that occur during that turn, space-
separated. Each movement must follow the format: D<ID>-<zone>, or D<ID>-<connection>
in case of drones still in flight toward restricted zones.
◦ D<ID> refers to the unique drone identifier (e.g., D1, D2).
◦ <zone> is the name of the destination zone.
◦ <connection> is the name of the connection toward a restricted zone.
• Drones that do not move in a given turn are omitted from that line.
• Drones that reach the end zone are considered delivered and are no longer tracked.
• The simulation ends when all drones have reached the end zone.
• Example:
D1-roof1 D2-corridorA
D1-roof2 D2-tunnelB
D1-goal D2-goal
VII.6
Scoring System
• The performance of a solution is evaluated based on the total number of simu-
lation turns required to route all drones from the start zone to the end zone.
• The fewer the number of turns, the better the score.
• A valid simulation must:
◦ Comply with all movement and occupancy rules.
◦ Correctly handle movement costs associated with zone types.
◦ Respect all capacity constraints (zone and connection limits).
◦ Avoid all conflicts (e.g., exceeding zone or connection capacity).
Secondary (optional) evaluation metrics may include:
• The number of drones moved per turn (efficiency of path allocation).
• The average number of turns per drone.
• The total path cost (sum of weighted movement costs across all drones).
14Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
• Quality and usefulness of visual representation.
In case of identical turn counts, solutions may be compared based on secondary metrics
or code quality.
These secondary metrics are not mandatory to compute automatically,
but learners are encouraged to display them in their simulation
output or documentation to help peers evaluate performance.
15Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
VII.7
Performance Benchmarks
The following performance targets define the expected optimization level your implemen-
tation must achieve.
• Expected performance:
◦ Easy maps should be solved in less than 10 turns
◦ Medium maps should be solved in 10–30 turns
◦ Hard maps should be solved in less than 60 turns
◦ Challenger map (optional) should aim to beat the reference record of 45 turns
This level is purely optional and does not affect your grade.
To help you evaluate your algorithm’s efficiency, here are reference performance targets
based on the provided test maps:
• Easy Maps:
◦ Linear path with 2 drones: Target ≤ 6 turns
◦ Simple fork with 3 drones: Target ≤ 6 turns
◦ Basic capacity with 4 drones: Target ≤ 8 turns
• Medium Maps:
◦ Dead end trap with 5 drones: Target ≤ 15 turns
◦ Circular loop with 6 drones: Target ≤ 20 turns
◦ Priority puzzle with 4 drones: Target ≤ 12 turns
• Hard Maps:
◦ Maze nightmare with 8 drones: Target ≤ 45 turns
◦ Capacity hell with 12 drones: Target ≤ 60 turns
◦ Ultimate challenge with 15 drones: Target ≤ 35 turns
• Challenger Map (optional — for exceptional implementations):
◦ The Impossible Dream with 25 drones: Reference record: 45 turns
◦ This quasi-unsolvable challenge is designed for algorithmic research and opti-
mization
◦ Solving this map demonstrates exceptional pathfinding and optimization skills
◦ Note: This level is purely optional and does not affect your grade
These benchmarks are provided as optimization targets to help you
evaluate your algorithm’s performance. Meeting these targets
demonstrates a well-optimized implementation and will be assessed
during peer evaluation.
16Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
• Can your algorithm meet these performance benchmarks?
• How does your solution compare to the reference targets?
• What optimizations did you implement to achieve better
performance?
• Can you solve the Challenger map and beat the 45-turn record?
17Chapter VIII
Readme Requirements
A README.md file must be provided at the root of your Git repository. Its purpose is
to allow anyone unfamiliar with the project (peers, staff, recruiters, etc.) to quickly
understand what the project is about, how to run it, and where to find more information
on the topic.
The README.md must include at least:
• The very first line must be italicized and read: This project has been created as part
of the 42 curriculum by <login1>[, <login2>[, <login3>[...]]].
• A “Description” section that clearly presents the project, including its goal and a
brief overview.
• An “Instructions” section containing any relevant information about compilation,
installation, and/or execution.
• A “Resources” section listing classic references related to the topic (documen-
tation, articles, tutorials, etc.), as well as a description of how AI was used —
specifying for which tasks and which parts of the project.
➠ Additional sections may be required depending on the project (e.g., usage
examples, feature list, technical choices, etc.).
Any required additions will be explicitly listed below.
• A detailed description of your algorithm choices and implementation strategy must
also be included.
• Documentation of the visual representation features and how they enhance the user
experience.
Your README must be written in English.
18Chapter IX
Bonus Part
This Bonus part will be reviewed only if all the mandatory requirements are met.
Here are features you can implement to enhance your project:
• Exceptional performances:
◦ You ’perfectly’ meet the performance reference targets for all provided maps.
◦ ’perfectly’ means you have exactly or fewer turns than the target.
• Challenger map:
◦ The Impossible Dream map is solved and beats the reference record of 45
turns.
19Chapter X
Submission and peer-review
Submit your assignment in your Git repository as usual. Only the work inside your
repository will be evaluated during the peer-evaluation. Don’t hesitate to double-check
the names of your files to ensure they are correct.
Place all your files at the root of your repository.
A fully working simulation written in Python, including:
• A parser for the input file format.
• A simulation engine respecting movement and zone rules.
• A pathfinding algorithm (or multiple) capable of minimizing total turns.
• A visual representation system (terminal colors and/or graphical interface).
• A terminal or log output that follows the specified format.
Note that we may ask you to explain your code or possibly even to
write some code. Make sure to be prepared for this.
Evaluation maps may be different from the ones provided in the
subject.
During the evaluation, a brief modification of the project may occasionally be re-
quested. This could involve a minor behaviour change, a few lines of code to write or
20Fly-in
Drones are interesting.
rewrite, or an easy-to-add feature.
While this step may not be applicable to every project, you must be prepared for it
if it is mentioned in the evaluation guidelines.
This step is meant to verify your actual understanding of a specific part of the project.
The modification can be performed in any development environment you choose (e.g.,
your usual setup), and it should be feasible within a few minutes — unless a specific time
frame is defined as part of the evaluation.
You can, for example, be asked to make a small update to a function or script, modify a
display, or adjust a data structure to store new information, etc.
The details (scope, target, etc.) will be specified in the evaluation guidelines and may
vary from one evaluation to another for the same project.
21
